template/CHART_NAME/README.md, before:

<!--- app-name: %%CHART_NAME%% -->

# %%CHART_NAME%%

%%DESCRIPTION%% (check existing examples)

## TL;DR

```console
helm install my-release oci://registry-1.docker.io/bitnamicharts/%%CHART_NAME%%
```

Looking to use %%CHART_NAME%% in production? Try [VMware Tanzu Application Catalog](https://bitnami.com/enterprise), the commercial edition of the Bitnami catalog.

## Introduction

%%INTRODUCTION%% (check existing examples)

## Prerequisites

- Kubernetes 1.23+
- Helm 3.8.0+
- PV provisioner support in the underlying infrastructure
- ReadWriteMany volumes for deployment scaling

## Installing the Chart

To install the chart with the release name `my-release`:

```console
helm install my-release oci://REGISTRY_NAME/REPOSITORY_NAME/%%CHART_NAME%%
```

> Note: You need to substitute the placeholders `REGISTRY_NAME` and `REPOSITORY_NAME` with a reference to your Helm chart registry and repository. For example, in the case of Bitnami, you need to use `REGISTRY_NAME=registry-1.docker.io` and `REPOSITORY_NAME=bitnamicharts`.

The command deploys %%CHART_NAME%% on the Kubernetes cluster in the default configuration. The [Parameters](#parameters) section lists the parameters that can be configured during installation.

> **Tip**: List all releases using `helm list`

## Configuration and installation details

### [Rolling VS Immutable tags](https://docs.vmware.com/en/VMware-Tanzu-Application-Catalog/services/tutorials/GUID-understand-rolling-tags-containers-index.html)

It is strongly recommended to use immutable tags in a production environment. This ensures your deployment does not change automatically if the same tag is updated with a different image.

Bitnami will release a new chart updating its containers if a new version of the main container, significant changes, or critical vulnerabilities exist.

### External database support

%%IF NEEDED%%

You may want to have %%CHART_NAME%% connect to an external database rather than installing one inside your cluster. Typical reasons for this are to use a managed database service, or to share a common database server for all your applications. To achieve this, the chart allows you to specify credentials for an external database with the [`externalDatabase` parameter](#parameters). You should also disable the MariaDB installation with the `mariadb.enabled` option. Here is an example:

```console
mariadb.enabled=false
externalDatabase.host=myexternalhost
externalDatabase.user=myuser
externalDatabase.password=mypassword
externalDatabase.database=mydatabase
externalDatabase.port=3306
```

### Ingress

%%IF NEEDED%%

This chart provides support for Ingress resources. If you have an ingress controller installed on your cluster, such as [nginx-ingress-controller](https://github.com/bitnami/charts/tree/main/bitnami/nginx-ingress-controller) or [contour](https://github.com/bitnami/charts/tree/main/bitnami/contour) you can utilize the ingress controller to serve your application.To enable Ingress integration, set `ingress.enabled` to `true`.

The most common scenario is to have one host name mapped to the deployment. In this case, the `ingress.hostname` property can be used to set the host name. The `ingress.tls` parameter can be used to add the TLS configuration for this host.

However, it is also possible to have more than one host. To facilitate this, the `ingress.extraHosts` parameter (if available) can be set with the host names specified as an array. The `ingress.extraTLS` parameter (if available) can also be used to add the TLS configuration for extra hosts.

> NOTE: For each host specified in the `ingress.extraHosts` parameter, it is necessary to set a name, path, and any annotations that the Ingress controller should know about. Not all annotations are supported by all Ingress controllers, but [this annotation reference document](https://github.com/kubernetes/ingress-nginx/blob/master/docs/user-guide/nginx-configuration/annotations.md) lists the annotations supported by many popular Ingress controllers.

Adding the TLS parameter (where available) will cause the chart to generate HTTPS URLs, and the  application will be available on port 443. The actual TLS secrets do not have to be generated by this chart. However, if TLS is enabled, the Ingress record will not work until the TLS secret exists.

[Learn more about Ingress controllers](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/ingress-controllers/).

### Securing traffic using TLS

TLS support can be enabled in the chart by specifying the `tls.` parameters while creating a release. The following parameters should be configured to properly enable the TLS support in the cluster:

- `tls.enabled`: Enable TLS support. Defaults to `false`
- `tls.existingSecret`: Name of the secret that contains the certificates. No defaults.
- `tls.certFilename`: Certificate filename. No defaults.
- `tls.certKeyFilename`: Certificate key filename. No defaults.
- `tls.certCAFilename`: CA Certificate filename. No defaults.

For example:

First, create the secret with the certificates files:

```console
kubectl create secret generic certificates-tls-secret --from-file=./cert.pem --from-file=./cert.key --from-file=./ca.pem
```

Then, use the following parameters:

```console
tls.enabled="true"
tls.existingSecret="certificates-tls-secret"
tls.certFilename="cert.pem"
tls.certKeyFilename="cert.key"
tls.certCAFilename="ca.pem"
```

### %%OTHER_SECTIONS%%

### Additional environment variables

In case you want to add extra environment variables (useful for advanced operations like custom init scripts), you can use the `extraEnvVars` property.

```yaml
%%CHART_NAME%%:
  extraEnvVars:
    - name: LOG_LEVEL
      value: error
```

Alternatively, you can use a ConfigMap or a Secret with the environment variables. To do so, use the `extraEnvVarsCM` or the `extraEnvVarsSecret` values.

### Sidecars

If additional containers are needed in the same pod as %%CHART_NAME%% (such as additional metrics or logging exporters), they can be defined using the `sidecars` parameter.

```yaml
sidecars:
- name: your-image-name
  image: your-image
  imagePullPolicy: Always
  ports:
  - name: portname
    containerPort: 1234
```

If these sidecars export extra ports, extra port definitions can be added using the `service.extraPorts` parameter (where available), as shown in the example below:

```yaml
service:
  extraPorts:
  - name: extraPort
    port: 11311
    targetPort: 11311
```

> NOTE: This Helm chart already includes sidecar containers for the Prometheus exporters (where applicable). These can be activated by adding the `--enable-metrics=true` parameter at deployment time. The `sidecars` parameter should therefore only be used for any extra sidecar containers.

If additional init containers are needed in the same pod, they can be defined using the `initContainers` parameter. Here is an example:

```yaml
initContainers:
  - name: your-image-name
    image: your-image
    imagePullPolicy: Always
    ports:
      - name: portname
        containerPort: 1234
```

Learn more about [sidecar containers](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/) and [init containers](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/init-containers/).

### Pod affinity

This chart allows you to set your custom affinity using the `affinity` parameter. Find more information about Pod affinity in the [kubernetes documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/assign-pod-node/#affinity-and-anti-affinity).

As an alternative, use one of the preset configurations for pod affinity, pod anti-affinity, and node affinity available at the [bitnami/common](https://github.com/bitnami/charts/tree/main/bitnami/common#affinities) chart. To do so, set the `podAffinityPreset`, `podAntiAffinityPreset`, or `nodeAffinityPreset` parameters.

## Persistence

The [Bitnami %%CHART_NAME%%](https://github.com/bitnami/containers/tree/main/bitnami/%%CHART_NAME%%) image stores the %%CHART_NAME%% data and configurations at the `/bitnami` path of the container. Persistent Volume Claims are used to keep the data across deployments.

If you encounter errors when working with persistent volumes, refer to our [troubleshooting guide for persistent volumes](https://docs.bitnami.com/kubernetes/faq/troubleshooting/troubleshooting-persistence-volumes/).

## Parameters

See <https://github.com/bitnami/readme-generator-for-helm> to create the table

The above parameters map to the env variables defined in [bitnami/%%CHART_NAME%%](https://github.com/bitnami/containers/tree/main/bitnami/%%CHART_NAME%%). For more information please refer to the [bitnami/%%CHART_NAME%%](https://github.com/bitnami/containers/tree/main/bitnami/%%CHART_NAME%%) image documentation.

Specify each parameter using the `--set key=value[,key=value]` argument to `helm install`. For example,

```console
helm install my-release \
  --set %%CHART_NAME%%Username=admin \
  --set %%CHART_NAME%%Password=password \
  --set mariadb.auth.rootPassword=secretpassword \
    oci://REGISTRY_NAME/REPOSITORY_NAME/%%CHART_NAME%%
```

> Note: You need to substitute the placeholders `REGISTRY_NAME` and `REPOSITORY_NAME` with a reference to your Helm chart registry and repository. For example, in the case of Bitnami, you need to use `REGISTRY_NAME=registry-1.docker.io` and `REPOSITORY_NAME=bitnamicharts`.

The above command sets the %%CHART_NAME%% administrator account username and password to `admin` and `password` respectively. Additionally, it sets the MariaDB `root` user password to `secretpassword`.

> NOTE: Once this chart is deployed, it is not possible to change the application's access credentials, such as usernames or passwords, using Helm. To change these application credentials after deployment, delete any persistent volumes (PVs) used by the chart and re-deploy it, or use the application's built-in administrative tools if available.

Alternatively, a YAML file that specifies the values for the above parameters can be provided while installing the chart. For example,

```console
helm install my-release -f values.yaml oci://REGISTRY_NAME/REPOSITORY_NAME/%%CHART_NAME%%
```

> Note: You need to substitute the placeholders `REGISTRY_NAME` and `REPOSITORY_NAME` with a reference to your Helm chart registry and repository. For example, in the case of Bitnami, you need to use `REGISTRY_NAME=registry-1.docker.io` and `REPOSITORY_NAME=bitnamicharts`.
> **Tip**: You can use the default [values.yaml](https://github.com/bitnami/charts/blob/main/template/CHART_NAME/values.yaml)

## Troubleshooting

Find more information about how to deal with common errors related to Bitnami's Helm charts in [this troubleshooting guide](https://docs.bitnami.com/general/how-to/troubleshoot-helm-chart-issues).

## License

Copyright &copy; 2024 Broadcom. The term "Broadcom" refers to Broadcom Inc. and/or its subsidiaries.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

<http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0>

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.

Commit message:

[bitnami/*] docs: :memo: Add "Backup & Restore" section (#30711)
* [bitnami/*] docs: :memo: Add "Backup & Restore" section

Signed-off-by: Javier J. Salmerón García <javier.salmeron@broadcom.com>

* docs: :memo: Add missing charts

Signed-off-by: Javier J. Salmerón García <javier.salmeron@broadcom.com>

* docs: :rotating_light: Fix lint issues

Signed-off-by: Javier J. Salmerón García <javier.salmeron@broadcom.com>

* docs: :rotating_light: Fix lint issues

Signed-off-by: Javier J. Salmerón García <javier.salmeron@broadcom.com>

---------

Signed-off-by: Javier J. Salmerón García <javier.salmeron@broadcom.com>

template/CHART_NAME/README.md, after:

<!--- app-name: %%CHART_NAME%% -->

# %%CHART_NAME%%

%%DESCRIPTION%% (check existing examples)

## TL;DR

```console
helm install my-release oci://registry-1.docker.io/bitnamicharts/%%CHART_NAME%%
```

Looking to use %%CHART_NAME%% in production? Try [VMware Tanzu Application Catalog](https://bitnami.com/enterprise), the commercial edition of the Bitnami catalog.

## Introduction

%%INTRODUCTION%% (check existing examples)

## Prerequisites

- Kubernetes 1.23+
- Helm 3.8.0+
- PV provisioner support in the underlying infrastructure
- ReadWriteMany volumes for deployment scaling

## Installing the Chart

To install the chart with the release name `my-release`:

```console
helm install my-release oci://REGISTRY_NAME/REPOSITORY_NAME/%%CHART_NAME%%
```

> Note: You need to substitute the placeholders `REGISTRY_NAME` and `REPOSITORY_NAME` with a reference to your Helm chart registry and repository. For example, in the case of Bitnami, you need to use `REGISTRY_NAME=registry-1.docker.io` and `REPOSITORY_NAME=bitnamicharts`.

The command deploys %%CHART_NAME%% on the Kubernetes cluster in the default configuration. The [Parameters](#parameters) section lists the parameters that can be configured during installation.

> **Tip**: List all releases using `helm list`

## Configuration and installation details

### [Rolling VS Immutable tags](https://docs.vmware.com/en/VMware-Tanzu-Application-Catalog/services/tutorials/GUID-understand-rolling-tags-containers-index.html)

It is strongly recommended to use immutable tags in a production environment. This ensures your deployment does not change automatically if the same tag is updated with a different image.

Bitnami will release a new chart updating its containers if a new version of the main container, significant changes, or critical vulnerabilities exist.

### External database support

%%IF NEEDED%%

You may want to have %%CHART_NAME%% connect to an external database rather than installing one inside your cluster. Typical reasons for this are to use a managed database service, or to share a common database server for all your applications. To achieve this, the chart allows you to specify credentials for an external database with the [`externalDatabase` parameter](#parameters). You should also disable the MariaDB installation with the `mariadb.enabled` option. Here is an example:

```console
mariadb.enabled=false
externalDatabase.host=myexternalhost
externalDatabase.user=myuser
externalDatabase.password=mypassword
externalDatabase.database=mydatabase
externalDatabase.port=3306
```

### Ingress

%%IF NEEDED%%

This chart provides support for Ingress resources. If you have an ingress controller installed on your cluster, such as [nginx-ingress-controller](https://github.com/bitnami/charts/tree/main/bitnami/nginx-ingress-controller) or [contour](https://github.com/bitnami/charts/tree/main/bitnami/contour) you can utilize the ingress controller to serve your application.To enable Ingress integration, set `ingress.enabled` to `true`.

The most common scenario is to have one host name mapped to the deployment. In this case, the `ingress.hostname` property can be used to set the host name. The `ingress.tls` parameter can be used to add the TLS configuration for this host.

However, it is also possible to have more than one host. To facilitate this, the `ingress.extraHosts` parameter (if available) can be set with the host names specified as an array. The `ingress.extraTLS` parameter (if available) can also be used to add the TLS configuration for extra hosts.

> NOTE: For each host specified in the `ingress.extraHosts` parameter, it is necessary to set a name, path, and any annotations that the Ingress controller should know about. Not all annotations are supported by all Ingress controllers, but [this annotation reference document](https://github.com/kubernetes/ingress-nginx/blob/master/docs/user-guide/nginx-configuration/annotations.md) lists the annotations supported by many popular Ingress controllers.

Adding the TLS parameter (where available) will cause the chart to generate HTTPS URLs, and the  application will be available on port 443. The actual TLS secrets do not have to be generated by this chart. However, if TLS is enabled, the Ingress record will not work until the TLS secret exists.

[Learn more about Ingress controllers](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/ingress-controllers/).

### Securing traffic using TLS

TLS support can be enabled in the chart by specifying the `tls.` parameters while creating a release. The following parameters should be configured to properly enable the TLS support in the cluster:

- `tls.enabled`: Enable TLS support. Defaults to `false`
- `tls.existingSecret`: Name of the secret that contains the certificates. No defaults.
- `tls.certFilename`: Certificate filename. No defaults.
- `tls.certKeyFilename`: Certificate key filename. No defaults.
- `tls.certCAFilename`: CA Certificate filename. No defaults.

For example:

First, create the secret with the certificates files:

```console
kubectl create secret generic certificates-tls-secret --from-file=./cert.pem --from-file=./cert.key --from-file=./ca.pem
```

Then, use the following parameters:

```console
tls.enabled="true"
tls.existingSecret="certificates-tls-secret"
tls.certFilename="cert.pem"
tls.certKeyFilename="cert.key"
tls.certCAFilename="ca.pem"
```

### %%OTHER_SECTIONS%%

### Additional environment variables

In case you want to add extra environment variables (useful for advanced operations like custom init scripts), you can use the `extraEnvVars` property.

```yaml
%%CHART_NAME%%:
  extraEnvVars:
    - name: LOG_LEVEL
      value: error
```

Alternatively, you can use a ConfigMap or a Secret with the environment variables. To do so, use the `extraEnvVarsCM` or the `extraEnvVarsSecret` values.

### Sidecars

If additional containers are needed in the same pod as %%CHART_NAME%% (such as additional metrics or logging exporters), they can be defined using the `sidecars` parameter.

```yaml
sidecars:
- name: your-image-name
  image: your-image
  imagePullPolicy: Always
  ports:
  - name: portname
    containerPort: 1234
```

If these sidecars export extra ports, extra port definitions can be added using the `service.extraPorts` parameter (where available), as shown in the example below:

```yaml
service:
  extraPorts:
  - name: extraPort
    port: 11311
    targetPort: 11311
```

> NOTE: This Helm chart already includes sidecar containers for the Prometheus exporters (where applicable). These can be activated by adding the `--enable-metrics=true` parameter at deployment time. The `sidecars` parameter should therefore only be used for any extra sidecar containers.

If additional init containers are needed in the same pod, they can be defined using the `initContainers` parameter. Here is an example:

```yaml
initContainers:
  - name: your-image-name
    image: your-image
    imagePullPolicy: Always
    ports:
      - name: portname
        containerPort: 1234
```

Learn more about [sidecar containers](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/) and [init containers](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/init-containers/).

### Pod affinity

This chart allows you to set your custom affinity using the `affinity` parameter. Find more information about Pod affinity in the [kubernetes documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/assign-pod-node/#affinity-and-anti-affinity).

As an alternative, use one of the preset configurations for pod affinity, pod anti-affinity, and node affinity available at the [bitnami/common](https://github.com/bitnami/charts/tree/main/bitnami/common#affinities) chart. To do so, set the `podAffinityPreset`, `podAntiAffinityPreset`, or `nodeAffinityPreset` parameters.

### Prometheus metrics

This chart can be integrated with Prometheus by setting `metrics.enabled` to `true`. %% EXPLAIN INTEGRATION. CHECK OTHER EXAMPLES %%. It will have the necessary annotations to be automatically scraped by Prometheus.

#### Prometheus requirements

It is necessary to have a working installation of Prometheus or Prometheus Operator for the integration to work. Install the [Bitnami Prometheus helm chart](https://github.com/bitnami/charts/tree/main/bitnami/prometheus) or the [Bitnami Kube Prometheus helm chart](https://github.com/bitnami/charts/tree/main/bitnami/kube-prometheus) to easily have a working Prometheus in your cluster.

#### Integration with Prometheus Operator

The chart can deploy `ServiceMonitor` objects for integration with Prometheus Operator installations. To do so, set the value `metrics.serviceMonitor.enabled=true`. Ensure that the Prometheus Operator `CustomResourceDefinitions` are installed in the cluster or it will fail with the following error:

```text
no matches for kind "ServiceMonitor" in version "monitoring.coreos.com/v1"
```

Install the [Bitnami Kube Prometheus helm chart](https://github.com/bitnami/charts/tree/main/bitnami/kube-prometheus) for having the necessary CRDs and the Prometheus Operator.

### Backup and restore

To back up and restore Helm chart deployments on Kubernetes, you need to back up the persistent volumes from the source deployment and attach them to a new deployment using [Velero](https://velero.io/), a Kubernetes backup/restore tool. Find the instructions for using Velero in [this guide](https://techdocs.broadcom.com/us/en/vmware-tanzu/application-catalog/tanzu-application-catalog/services/tac-doc/apps-tutorials-backup-restore-deployments-velero-index.html).

## Persistence

The [Bitnami %%CHART_NAME%%](https://github.com/bitnami/containers/tree/main/bitnami/%%CHART_NAME%%) image stores the %%CHART_NAME%% data and configurations at the `/bitnami` path of the container. Persistent Volume Claims are used to keep the data across deployments.

If you encounter errors when working with persistent volumes, refer to our [troubleshooting guide for persistent volumes](https://docs.bitnami.com/kubernetes/faq/troubleshooting/troubleshooting-persistence-volumes/).

## Parameters

See <https://github.com/bitnami/readme-generator-for-helm> to create the table

The above parameters map to the env variables defined in [bitnami/%%CHART_NAME%%](https://github.com/bitnami/containers/tree/main/bitnami/%%CHART_NAME%%). For more information please refer to the [bitnami/%%CHART_NAME%%](https://github.com/bitnami/containers/tree/main/bitnami/%%CHART_NAME%%) image documentation.

Specify each parameter using the `--set key=value[,key=value]` argument to `helm install`. For example,

```console
helm install my-release \
  --set %%CHART_NAME%%Username=admin \
  --set %%CHART_NAME%%Password=password \
  --set mariadb.auth.rootPassword=secretpassword \
    oci://REGISTRY_NAME/REPOSITORY_NAME/%%CHART_NAME%%
```

> Note: You need to substitute the placeholders `REGISTRY_NAME` and `REPOSITORY_NAME` with a reference to your Helm chart registry and repository. For example, in the case of Bitnami, you need to use `REGISTRY_NAME=registry-1.docker.io` and `REPOSITORY_NAME=bitnamicharts`.

The above command sets the %%CHART_NAME%% administrator account username and password to `admin` and `password` respectively. Additionally, it sets the MariaDB `root` user password to `secretpassword`.

> NOTE: Once this chart is deployed, it is not possible to change the application's access credentials, such as usernames or passwords, using Helm. To change these application credentials after deployment, delete any persistent volumes (PVs) used by the chart and re-deploy it, or use the application's built-in administrative tools if available.

Alternatively, a YAML file that specifies the values for the above parameters can be provided while installing the chart. For example,

```console
helm install my-release -f values.yaml oci://REGISTRY_NAME/REPOSITORY_NAME/%%CHART_NAME%%
```

> Note: You need to substitute the placeholders `REGISTRY_NAME` and `REPOSITORY_NAME` with a reference to your Helm chart registry and repository. For example, in the case of Bitnami, you need to use `REGISTRY_NAME=registry-1.docker.io` and `REPOSITORY_NAME=bitnamicharts`.
> **Tip**: You can use the default [values.yaml](https://github.com/bitnami/charts/blob/main/template/CHART_NAME/values.yaml)

## Troubleshooting

Find more information about how to deal with common errors related to Bitnami's Helm charts in [this troubleshooting guide](https://docs.bitnami.com/general/how-to/troubleshoot-helm-chart-issues).

## License

Copyright &copy; 2024 Broadcom. The term "Broadcom" refers to Broadcom Inc. and/or its subsidiaries.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

<http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0>

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
